[DOC] Updates to external listener config procedures (#3353)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/modules/proc-accessing-kafka-using-routes.adoc

[id='proc-accessing-kafka-using-routes-{context}']
= Accessing Kafka using OpenShift routes

This procedure describes how to access a Strimzi Kafka cluster from an external client outside of OpenShift using routes.

> To connect to a broker, you need a hostname (advertised address) for the route _bootstrap address_,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to a broker, you need a hostname for the route _bootstrap address_,
```

> as well as the certificate used for authentication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
as well as the certificate used for TLS encryption.
```

> Routes are used for HTTP access, so the port used to connect is always 443.

Reviewer: Again, we should either remove the HTTP reference or explain the details about TLS passthrough masking the Kafka traffic as HTTPS.

Author: > For access using routes, the port is always 443.

+
[source,shell,subs=+quotes]
oc apply -f _KAFKA-CONFIG-FILE_
+
`ClusterIP` type services are created for each Kafka broker, as well as an external _bootstrap service_.

> The bootstrap service routes external traffic to the Kafka brokers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The services route the traffic from the OpenShift Routes to the Kafka brokers.
```

An OpenShift `Route` resource is also created for each service to expose them using the HAProxy load balancer.
DNS addresses used for connection are propagated to the `status` of each service.

. Retrieve the address of the bootstrap service to access the Kafka cluster.
+
[source,shell,subs=+quotes]

> oc get routes _KAFKA-CLUSTER-NAME_-kafka-bootstrap -o=jsonpath='{.status.ingress[0].host}{"\n"}'

Reviewer: Again, you can just use the command `kubectl get kafka my-cluster -o=jsonpath='{.status.listeners[?(@.type=="external")].bootstrapServers}{"\n"}'`

+

> You need the address of the `Route` bootstrap service (`_KAFKA-CLUSTER-NAME_-kafka-bootstrap`).
> +
> Use the route service address and port 443 (_ROUTE-ADDRESS:443_) in your Kafka client as the _bootstrap address_ to connect to the Kafka cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
